# ADL_Final_Aidan_Sullvivan
Comparing the Euclidean distance of the latent spaces of midi files generated from a variational autoencoder.


My goal with this project was to test if the latent space generated by a variational autoencoder can be used to compare the similarity of songs. The original purpose of autoencoders was compression. Latent spaces are much smaller in size compared to image and song files. Comparing a midi file with another by comparing all of the pitch and timestep values is a more expensive operation than comparing two latent spaces. Additionally, a latent spaces might be more representative of a songs attributes than just the pitch and timestep values. This project was partly inspired by the Google Image Embedding competition on kaggle and built using data from the musegan project created by Dong Hao-Wen. 

Citations 

Book

Used dataset and some data prep tools from Musegan:

cff-version: 1.2.0
message: If you use this software, please cite it using these metadata.
authors:
  - family-names: Dong
    given-names: Hao-Wen
title: MuseGAN
preferred-citation:
  type: article
  authors:
    - family-names: Dong
      given-names: Hao-Wen
    - family-names: Hsiao
      given-names: Wen-Yi
    - family-names: Yang
      given-names: Li-Chia
    - family-names: Yang
      given-names: Yi-Hsuan
  title: "MuseGAN: Multi-track Sequential Generative Adversarial Networks for Symbolic Music Generation and Accompaniment"
  journal: Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI)
  year: 2018
date-released: 2017-11-09
license: MIT
url: "https://salu133445.github.io/musegan/"
repository-code: "https://github.com/salu133445/musegan"
